# 6-Silly-Mistakes-to-Avoid-During-Web-Development-Process
6 Silly Mistakes to Avoid During Web Development Process
Online business is the hottest trend on the internet in the present scenario. The fundamental goal of a competent website development company is to create a heady mix of content and commerce to achieve a unique experience. Numerous startups are dabbling in eCommerce at present, but only a few of them can manage to grow and spread their business. The rest of the firms close down and are expelled out of the market. The reason behind their failure is the inability to manage the web portal due to making many errors in judgment. We will discuss some of these mistakes which companies dealing with any product or service must avoid in the given below paragraphs.
Ignoring the Aspect of Customer Service 
Ignoring the all-important customer service department is one of the most dubious mistakes a web development company in Sydney can make.  Therefore, the first thing that an online goods-based company needs to fix their attention on is the proper functioning of this department. Many firms argue that online businesses do not need direct customer support &  consist of users conveniently purchasing online. However, customer service is essential as it helps the user perform tasks, such as solving their queries, having a conversation with executives, or lodging a complaint quickly. Consumer support also helps in payments processing, handle returns and refunds.  
Failure to Upload Good Product Images
Using high-resolution photos are instrumental to a company's business. An image can provide many details to a user and help them know more about the item they will potentially purchase. The images have an added impact in helping them to understand their search term online, as this platform does not allow the user to touch or feel the product. However, most firms find themselves unable to upload good pictures of the item, which can be disastrous. Make sure to put more than one image for every item in your website catalogue. If the product has more than one colour, include those pictures as well.
Inadequate & Irrelevant Product Descriptions
Writing irrelevant or insufficient descriptions for their item is another dreadful mistake committed by a web development company. Similar to images, the product description is also essential for a user to gain more information about your goods. Therefore, ensure giving all the information required to feature all the attractive points necessary to sell your item. It will be more helpful if you answer questions from the customer about the item design and its various functions. In addition, make a list of elements used to design the product and the design processes & techniques. Do not forget to write about the warranty, if any, given by the products.
Creation of a Complex Check-Out Process
One of the essential but equally taken for granted aspects of eCommerce websites is the check-out process design. Once a customer selects a commodity for purchasing, he/she should be able to do so in an effortless manner. The consequent check-out process should also be finished in a few clicks without any issues. However, many business firms design complex check-out algorithms & mechanisms, making checking out a long, drawn-out process. It includes giving email addresses and creating accounts. If a user faces problems while checking out of the website, he may think twice about purchasing your item and abandon his cart full of potential buying items. Therefore the companies should ensure providing the option of 'check-out as guest' to avoid using such irrational steps. You can hire a good web development company in Sydney for this purpose.
Lack of Shipping Options
A typical customer expects the web portals to have multiple options for shipping. However, a sizeable number of companies make the unpardonable mistake of adding very few options for shipping. It is hard to convince the user to purchase goods from a website that charges an expensive amount but provides almost no shipping options. Therefore, a company should look for maximum shipping options regarding cost and time of delivery and offer them to customers. The key to turbocharge your business growth is to give a choice to customers. Having multiple shipping options is also beneficial during a natural catastrophe or any other emergency, as one can order from different options even if some are not working.
Not Taking Search Engine Optimisation Seriously
No company can afford to ignore features such as search engine optimisation. However, missing to optimise the search engine is a grave blunder done by many companies. According to a survey, users finding a product using online search have three times more chance of purchasing that product. If a firm possesses an extensive catalogue of items, it should be displayed online so that the users find it easily by just searching online using a few keywords. Therefore, it is vital to optimising your search engine as you do not want to miss the tremendous influx of user traffic due to an incompetent system. Ensure boosting your product descriptions using keywords and tags to enhance the optimisation of your portal. You can also recruit a web development company providing services of eCommerce website designing.
